This class will serve to get to know how the legal system is organized.

There are *Trial Courts* in most countries. These courts are called first instance courts: it is the first time when a case is discussed. Takes 2 years. These courts serve to:
- Tell the judge what happened - in countries like Portugal, the lawyers talk, in countries like the UK the lawyers talk to a jury and the judge decides;
- Be close to the citizens - there are hundreds of these.

Next, there are *Appellate Courts*. These courts serve to appeal decision from *Trial Courts*. Takes 2 to 5 years. Here, the facts aren't retold as the information is the same as in before. There are usually 3 to 5 judges.

Finally, there is the *Supreme Courts*. They are reserved to the most difficult cases. It is quite difficult to have access to this court; it is reserved. Can take as long as 12 years.

There are 3 main areas of law:
1. Civil Courts - where two persons go against which other on, mainly, money matters. You are sued or you sue somebody;
2. Criminal Courts - it involves crimes. The victim is represented by a prosecutor. The criminal is defended by a lawyer. In the UK, there is a jury is the one that has to decide whether the accused is either guilty or innocent; only later, the judge applies the law based on the jury deliberation.

In Portugal, both the Civil and Criminal Courts are merged into the *Supreme Court of Justice*. Matters of taxation and administration matters are dealt with by a separate system that ends at the *Supreme Administrative Court*. There is a court in between that is called the *Ombudsman* that deals with complaints of the citizens against the public administration. The *Ombudsman* analyzes the facts and issues a recommendation. This figure can not mandate stuff.

These are the courts that we can expect to go in our lives. There is another court called the *Constitutional Court* that deals with the context of sources of law. In the previous courts, the law comes from the regular law. The Constitution is important as it sets a list of rules or rights that cannot be breached or violated by the ordinal law. The *Constitutional Law* doesn't have hearings, it just writes.

There are two extra courts at an international level: the *European Court of Justice* which is mandated by the Treaty of Lisbon (it is constituted by the TEU and **TFEU** - the most important article); and the *European Court of Human Rights* which protects the European Convention of Human Rights.

There is a bridge between all national courts in civil, criminal, and tax law to the ECJ. We can have early relief as the ECJ can come into help right at the Trial level.

The most important right in the European Convention of HR is the article 6 that defends a fair trial. The ECHR is only of help after all the national possibilities have been tried.
____________
**Homework**
Go to the website of the ECJ and of the ECHR and try to explain in to someone.
Wax chapter 6.
