There are two supreme courts in Portugal. At the European level, there are 2 equally important courts:
- ECJ, in Luxembourg;
- ECHR, in Strasbourg, France.

There is a lower level court in Luxembourg called GC.

The normal path of a process is:
1. National lower level courts;
2. National upper level courts in a country;
3. National Supreme Court;
4. ECJ - European Court of Justice.


Whenever there is a conflict amongst national and European rights, a national court can file a *request for preliminary ruling*. The answer is called *preliminary ruling of the ECJ*.

If we wanted a document from the EC, they never ask why, and can do one of three things:
- Yes;
- No;
- (*Silence*).

If we get a No we will fight it with an *action for anulement*. We ask the GC for a destruction of the decision.

There will be three materials of capital importance:
- Consolidated Version of the Treaty of Lisbon;
- www.europa.eu;
- www.curia.eu.

For the midterm we can take the Treaty of Lisbon without extra stuff and the cases.

The recommended textbook is **EU Law: Text, Cases, and Materials** by Paul Craig and Gráinne de Búrca.

The password of Moodle is *EU* or *EULAW*.

Topics of the course:
1. History of the Union and the enlargements;
2. Treaties;
3. Regulations;
4. Directives;
5. SLB;
6. (*we drink poison*)
7. Free movement of goods;
8. Brexit.

Evaluation:
- 06 points - 20180315 midterm;
- 02 points - practical class;
- 12 points - exam.

Practicals only start next week.

lrossi@novasbe.pt
