On the day of the midterm, we are going to focus on specific points.

One of the things the people will look at are the treaties:
1. The **date a treaty is signed**
2. The **date of entry into force**

The treaties say that "on this day the treaty will be enforceable" specially for the treaty of Lisbon (it will appear in the midterm).

**Which member states today are part of the Union?**

When defining a concept, we should cite a specific case. We should quote a source. We need to define two definitions:
1. **direct applicability**
2. **direct effect**

van guedden or cimental

**What happens when a member state enacts national law contradicting the union's law in a specific treaty?**

Mr lionession the cows case. **We need to tell what legal issue is behind and what type of autonomy do member states have in terms of regulation.**

Autcky mech case. The stople argument. **In this circumstance, can we use the stople argument?**

One question regarding access to documnets. We are going to concentrate on asking who can apply to documents. **Am I entitled to ask for documents?** And if the criteria in code 104.9 is more or less generous than the (?? Code of conduct).

**What's a regulation? What is a directive?**

****
**D130** and D132
Friday at 11am
****

**What was the rule in Van gedhan? What was the rule?**

No increase in tax. It is a negative obligation. It is a *non facere* rule. It is a negative order.

Previous law? **Lex posterior derogat priori**, is it important? **Monism and dualism**? Do they work in EU Law?

What does the ECJ do in access to documents? In preliminary rulings it tell how institutions should act. What is ask the ECJ are annulments. It doesn't do anything else. If it annuls, the ECJ says for the decision to be redone. If it confirms, then there is nothing to be done. What the commission does after the annulment is that is rejects on another basis, another exception.

We have to have clear that in the cases we did is always a national court asking the ECJ ->  preliminary ruling. Action for annulment happens when we ask for something and are rejected.

****

We can take the rulings, the treaties,
