About the midterm tomorrow:
- It will be easy.

There are 6 questions. And some of them are divided by two

See the countries there are part of the EU. When were the treaties Amsterdam/Lisbon/Maastricht.

Difference between direct effect and direct applicability. Theoretical part.

Direct applicability is "you have a european directive/regulation, it only means if there s the nead for a ember state to do a norm "

Regulations have direct applicability. There is no need for Portugal to legislate to apply the law.

Directives do not have direct applicability. For example, with MIF, Portugal hasn't yet enacted into law.

Direct effect is the possibility that individuals have to use the European normative. A regulation has direct applicability and direct effect. We can use it in a national court. A directive (stocko argument, go read the van vogn de los and see the stocko argument).

How to justify:
- Give the definition
- Structure example: As we saw in the (...), we can use the stocko argument to ask for direct effect in cases where direct applicability.

Question:
1. countries when?
2. Direct applicability vs (Give case)
3. Practical

Go home and see the cases that we saw in the theoretical classes. Go to the case, to the end to the decision and see the decision of the court. Direct effect -> the courts decision was that direct effect was not applicable (...).

The practival part
- See the ddifeerecne between the code of 93
- and regulation

Regarding access. Remeber that in the code of condute there was a really broad view. Now we have a more restrict idea in article 2 that says that any citizen of the union blah blah. Is this more open? We don't know. It is more explainable. It is more generous than the code of 93. All the codes in the article have direct applicability.

What was the Petris decision? Do not provide access as it was not clear even though there was direct effect.

The regulation was more generous than the code of conduct. Before, in access, there was the idea of public. For the concept of who are the beneficiaries, it is not as generous as it is more restrictive when we look at the target audience. Before we had the public but now we have the definition of public. The rights that are given, the documents that are accessible now, are more generous than in the code.
b
The second practical question, remember article 2 of the regulation. We have article 2. The article 2 is divided into 2 numbers and the number 1 is divided into 2.

Art 2:
2.1. ()
2.1.1. Any citizen of the Union
2.1.2. natural (residing) or legal (registered) person
2.2. ()
2.2.1. natural or legal person

A natural person is a person not a company residing in some country of the union.

If you are a legal person, and we have our registered office in London (UK is still part of the EU) we have access.

An environmental NGO having registered office in Berlin. Is it a beneficiary by right? Yes.
