Groups of 3-4. There will be two dates:
1. 7 March
  1. C58/94 - Netherlands vs Council
  2. C191/99 - Kvaerner plc v Staatssecretaris van Financiën.
2. 21 March
  1. T188/57
  2. T436/09
  3. T174/95

Send an email until Sunday.

At 15 of march we will have the midterm.

Work to do:
- Download the decrease
- What is the case about
- Tell us the facts
  - Theater
  - Cinema
- Discuss the legal matters
  - ex. with the Netherlands the point in question was the nature of the code of '93.
- We have to have a conclusions
  - The decision of the court
  - What was decided and why it was important.

**We all have to speak**.

No written paper. *20 to 30 minutes presentation*


____________

What was the first type of document that started discussing the idea of transparency?
Declaration 17. It was the first act that gave stimulus to the transparance idea.

How was the 1993 code implemented?
The code of 93 was implemented by the way of two decisions by the comission.

What case law chalenged the nature? what case?
A member state and a parliament discussing against the parliament. THE NETHERLANDS. The first case tha challenged the code of law of 93. It was questioned by the juristicor.

What did the 1995 code of conduct concern?
It brought something new. This code gave legislative activity to the access of documents.

Where was the 1995 code of conduct published?
In a press release and not in the journal. It was not published in the official journal.

Into which threaty were rules of transparency first introdued? Threaty of Maastricht and Amesterdam.

Did it have direct effects?
At the beginning, no. It didn't have.

What type of actsucceeded the 1993/1995 code of conduct in the year 2001?
REGULATION.

Where is transparency regulated today in the TFEU/TEU?
At the present, TFEU - article 15, and TEU - article 1. Before, it was the article 255 of TEC.
