We are going to look at why Europe came to exist. There are many views on the topic but we will focus on the internal determinism versus chance.


The first auther is Jones. His starting point is: how was it possible to finance the Discoveries. He wrote the book: *The European Miracle*. Institutions and the environment are his two major topics.

He argues that we can see institutions in the way that economic agents would not feel fear of the monarchs. The monarquies, by not interfering with markets, allowed Europeans to partake in economic activity. This point is very important to investment and capital accumulation. investment is interesting as it is a multi-temporal activity. Investing and the accumulation of capital allowed for countries to get rich.

Secondly, Jones argues that the environment played an important role for the development of Europe. As a result of few climate disasters when compared to Asia, there was a demographic phenomenon where the birth rate was high while the death rate was low. In Europe, the demographic adjustment was done via the birth rate as Europeans would control the rate depending on the economic activity. In good times, there would be more mariages with younger people which translate into a longer fertile period thus more kids. In bad times, the converse would happen as the number of new families would go down, decreasing the fertile period of the new marriages of older people, and resulting in a lower fertility rate. In Asia, there would always be a high fertility rate and the death rate would vary depending on the existence of natural catastrophes. For this reason, there would be a quite often pressure on resources.


Pomeranz argues internal conditions are important, but colonial expansion reinforced this mechanism.
